# 01/03/2025

There is a sense of guilt I feel at the idea of not dedicating myself to ASI.

The guilt occurs on two levels.

Firstly, I'd feel guilty for not contributing my energy to materializing a
technology that would improve well being. If we could solve every medical,
engineering, and social problem, the benefits would be tremendous.

If my effort could get us there even one day sooner, it would save thousands of
people from trauma. And "my effort" here doesn't need to imply that I invent
AGI. My awareness being centered on anything is a multiplier for global attention.
The conversations I have, the energy I put out, the communities I enliven with
my participation---all of this has a butterfly effect which transforms the world.

When I ask myself---what is the most important thing to work on?---the answer is
ASI. And if the scaling hypothesis is false, and we need different algorithms
to get us there, then it seems compelling to me to work on this.

But I'm far from a competent mathematician. But I could become one. Not a great,
but at least competent.

This is where the ego enters the picture. My desire to be great steps in and says
that whatever I dedicate my life to ought to be something that I can be great at.
I don't think that's true objectively. But subjectively I do. From a broader
perspective I don't think my own greatness matters that much---greatness here
meaning social greatness, greatness as social role. But individual greatness and
social greatness are different. I can be great at being me, great at what I do,
without being great within a narrow domain relative to others. You could picture
this as being in the third quartile of competency at any given domain I involve
myself in, but in the 1% when it comes to overall quality being. I use "quality
of being" here rather than "quality of life" because the "being" I'm evoking is
a being of action and assertion. The people who are in the 1% of being in the
world are different than the 1% richest or the 1% happiest. This seems like a
greater goal than narrow greatness. And yet society idolizes the narrowly great.
I idolize the narrowly great. 

The second reason I'd feel guilty is because this field will clearly be successful
and I want to participate in its success. Yes, partially out of a desire to
satisfy my desire for wealth, and also the gratification of being considered
big-brained. It's all shameful but it's all real. But beyond that, there is a
desire for the excitement of being part of this bubbling field. I want to talk
with people about how to use AI to make the world better. 

Making the world better feels so grand and amorphous that its not only hard to
know what one is even implying in that phrase, but also to picture onesself as
accomplishing such a feat. I do think the benefits in the medical field would
be the most profound. I want to solve the mental and physical ailment problem.
Imagine if we lived in a world where we understood the human body so well that
none of the physical and mental ailments I or my loved ones have ever experienced
were a thing of the past? It's almost incomprehensible how much better the world
could be.

It's difficult grappling with the urge toward high-level thinking and low-level
competency. I seem to be good at building things. I could be much better. But if
I consider the teams I've been apart of over 2024, I recognize that I'm relatively
good at holding many components in my mind. It's hard, and most people aren't
good at it. I'm not the best. But it's important to recognize that I'm already
third quartile at this.

Definition: Artificial Super Intelligence is a machine learning system that can
exponentially increase its ability to model and solve problems, including the
problem of accelerating its own capacity to solve problems.

Conjecture: Artificial Super Intelligence will be achieved within twenty years.

I think this conjecture is mostly based on excitement. It is exciting that
transformers can derive statistical semantics and generatively model them.

## A Counter Position

I have lived the last two years of my life in overall deferrment of gratification.
I have been living for tomorrow. But in some ways I think it has been desructive
to my identity. In some ways I find it harder to move through this world as an
integrated individual. And I'm undecided whether to say one is delusionional to
believethat integrated individuals exist at all, or to doubt it. At the very
least, I have experienced my life dysphorically for its entirety, and I'd rather
not. 

But I mean this optimistically---I don't think it's a necessity. It's something
that I am inclined to, but I also see a vector leading toward a place of less
disphoria and more synchronicity with my environment. 

Maybe this is wishful thinking---because I'm actually not sure what that vector
is. I guess, pragmatically, it would mean focusing my energy outward, on others,
instead of so much on myself. Of extending my hand to the world---inviting that
associate out for a drink or a meal. Asking that girl out. Making that project
I'm scared to make. But as I type all this the fantasy of it all becomes clear.
It's a projection of my identity onto an imaginary vision.

All things start with a vision. But still, I recognize the irreality of it.

## So what am I to do?

I want to master software building. I want to build things that are immediately
useful. But I also want to contribute to stepping toward artificial super
intelligence.

It seems there is still a lot of self-learning I need to do before I can get
there. And probably the best use of my energy is in empowering myself and others
to get to this goal.

I feel conflicted about media, and academia, and entrepreneurship. But I think
this is in part because I treat them all as though they are different vectors
and this creates a tension that pulls me apart and inhibits my progress.

If I were to step all of these things in the same direction, and throw in my
need for artistic fulfillment as well, it would be this:

artistry ->

media -> 
academia -----------|
                applied ai
entrepreneurhip ----|


It feels like there's not even a paradigm for what I'm trying to concretize in
my mind.

It's almost like software shamanism. Its a form of 

## Fundamentally

Fundamentally, a high quality machine learning algorithm is domain agnositc.
Maybe that's wrong. But math itself certainly is domain agnostic. Not certianly,
but apparently---although there are some gaps which we don't seem to necessarily
be able to fill with math---such as the realm of the psyche.

What I'm trying to say is that I can be a pluralist if I have the right approach.

Music making is an algorithmic process that is very mathematizable. Storytelling,
not so much. But it is not hard to imagine overlapping music, math, and AI.

The question is: do I even want to do that? Am I only compelled by music for
egotistical reasons? 

I think moreso than anything, I desire to be a man on a mission. And for that,
I need a dream. 

I was startled out of my last dream. And now I'm sleep walking.

As I sit here and think, I find my mind wandering to examples of others
from which to model how I ought to act in the world---who I can be.

